Add the short_name scope attribute (#2702)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/scope/README.md

> # Scope Semantic Conventions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Instrumentation Scope Semantic Conventions
```

**Status**: [Experimental](../document-status.md)

> This document defines standard attributes for the instrumentation scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines common attributes for the [instrumentation scope](../glossary.md#instrumentation-scope).
```

Or maybe something like 

"This document defines attributes to be used on the [instrumentation scope](../glossary.md#instrumentation-scope) that are common between all signals."

Author: I've added the link.  I prefer the current wording, as these attributes aren't really common across signals.  An instrumentation scope is orthogonal to signals (like resource).

<!-- semconv scope -->
| Attribute  | Type | Description  | Examples  | Requirement Level |
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `scope.short_name` | string | The single-word name for the instrumentation scope. | `mylibrary` | Recommended |

Reviewer 2: Please add an explanation of the semantics. E.g. are there any uniqueness requirements, should it be derived from the regular `Name` or how it is related to `Name` if it is, etc. Are there max length recommendations, what are valid characters to use, etc. Perhaps link to relevant issues/PRs that explain why this is needed.

Author: The full semantics I want are described in https://github.com/OpenObservability/OpenMetrics/blob/main/specification/OpenMetrics.md#metric-naming-and-namespaces.  I'll try and capture that here.

> | `scope.short_name` | string | The short name for the instrumentation scope, which should generally be less than 15 characters, and generally consist of a single word. It is not required to be globally unique, but should be unique enough to make it very unlikely to collide with other short names.  An example use is as the [namespace](https://github.com/OpenObservability/OpenMetrics/blob/main/specification/OpenMetrics.md#metric-naming-and-namespaces) (prefix) for OpenMetrics metric names. | `mylibrary`; `otelhttp` | Recommended |

Reviewer 3: Not a blocking comment, but it seems likely that `scope.short_name` will make its way into scope attributes for traces and logs as well. I can't think of any reason why this would be a problem - just want to confirm that everyone understands `scope.short_name` to be a signal agnostic attribute.

Reviewer 4: Is this attribute "special" in some way, compared with others? In the companion #2703 an example is given with two scope attributes, `scope.short_name` and `library_mascot`. 

If I receive an OTLP export (for any signal) with two scopes that contain otherwise identically-named logs/spans/metrics, then:

- the scope.short_name is implicit qualifier for the named logs/spans/metrics, making them distinct and unrelated; metrics belonging to the two scopes cannot internally break the single-writer rule (despite sharing same attributes).
- the library_mascot is just like a resource attribute, has no special properties; metrics belonging to the two scopes would break the single-writer rule, if they were to share the same attributes.

Not sure if my interpretation is correct or not, would like this section to clarify.

Author: > just like a resource attribute, has no special properties; metrics belonging to the two scopes would break the single-writer rule, if they were to share the same attributes.

This doesn't seem correct for resource attributes.  Reporting CPU usage (assume the metric has no attributes) is possible for two different resources (e.g. two different containers) without breaking the single-writer rule, right?

My take is that:

1. Fundamentally, the scope (full) name+ version is the implicit qualifier which implies that metrics within it distinct and unrelated.  I believe this is currently the status quo.
2. All scope attributes are descriptive (not identifying) of the scope name + version
3. short_name is a shortened identifier which is likely, but not guaranteed, to uniquely identify the scope name + version within a program.

Reviewer 4: OK, thank you. I prefer your interpretation.
In data-model.md, there's a paragraph that can use a slight extension:

```
Metric streams are grouped into individual `Metric` objects,
identified by:

- The originating `Resource` attributes
- The instrumentation `Scope` (e.g., instrumentation library name, version)
- The metric stream's `name`
```
Maybe change "(e.g., instrumentation library name, version)" to "(i.e., instrumentation scope name, version, and attributes)".

Author: I was actually thinking that scope attributes would be non-identifying: "All scope attributes are descriptive (not identifying) of the scope name + version", as that would reduce the burden on non-otel exporters to REQUIRE them to be attached to all telemetry.  Are there use-cases where we want attributes to be identifying?

Reviewer 5: I don't think we want to have them, since we anyway don't use them to construct different meters.

Reviewer 4: > I don't think we want to have them, since we anyway don't use them to construct different meters.

I expect varying scope attributes will produce different meters, seems to be the intention behind #2579, specifically https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/api.md#get-a-meter 

specifically "[since 1.13.0] attributes (optional): Specifies the instrumentation scope attributes to associate with emitted telemetry." and "Implementations MUST return different Meter instances when called repeatedly with different values of parameters."
